Data description (#10)
UBC-MDS/Cost_of_living_py: Proposal.md

# Section 2: Description of Data

> In this project , we are using the **Cost of Living - NUMBEO Dataset** which is avaialable in [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/joeypp/cost-of-living-numbeo-dataset) .This data set contains cost of living information of 160 cities across the globe with variety of information such as country, city name, region, rent, cost of owning a house, car etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this project , we are using the **Cost of Living - NUMBEO Dataset** which is avaialable in [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/joeypp/cost-of-living-numbeo-dataset). This data set contains cost of living information such as  rent, transportation, entertainment, cost of owning a house, and many more for a variety of cities across the globe . 
```

The Kaggle Dataset has been extracted from [numbeo](https://www.numbeo.com/cost-of-living) which is the world’s largest crowd-sourced cost of living database which collects statitics on the quality of life informations including housing indicators, crime rates, and healthcare. The website contains around 7,541,898 prices in 10,529 cities which have been entered by 630,509 contributors.
We will be visualizing the data of 160 cities which was collected in the year 2020.The dataset has 56 different columns that contain cost of living
information which we have processed and broadly classified into major categories such as `monthly salary`, `rent`, `grocery`, `utility`, `shopping`, `entertainment`, `fitness`, `property_price`, `transportation`, `childcare expenses`,`monthly_savings` miscellaneous for ease of visualization and understanding.Although the original dataset contained all the prices in Euro, we have converted the prices to USD.

> Our app will allow users to view these categorization which can be easily filtered to view the statistics for different cities or region or country. Since, the main aim of this project is to give an overview of the cost of living standards to new Graduates, we have processed the data based on following assumptions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our app will allow users to view these categorization which can be easily compared with other cities or regions. Since, the main aim of this project is to give an overview of the cost of living standards to new Graduates, we have processed the data based on following assumptions:
```

> * Rent for one person considers the average of rent for a one-bedroom in city center and outside city center and grocery for a single person.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Rent for one person considers the average of rent for a one-bedroom in city center and outside city center 
```

> * Person uses public transportation which includes average monthly cost of taxi's , monthly bus passes .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Public transportation includes average monthly cost of taxi's and monthly bus passes .
```

> * Liquor and cigarettes ,movie cost were included in entertainment category.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Liquor, cigarettes, and movie cost were included in entertainment category.
```

* Fitness fee includes monthly membership in fitness club only(tennis court rent is uncommon and was dropped).

> * Shopping includes buying jeans, summer dress, sports shoes, leather shoes one for each in a month.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Shopping includes buying jeans, summer dress, sports shoes, leather shoes once per month.
```

* Childcare fee includes the monthly cost for one preschool child.

> * Monthly saving is how much USD the person is likely to save in a month, which was calculated by monthly salary(after tax) after deducting all the costs mentioned above(except the childcare fee).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Monthly saving is how much USD the person is likely to save in a month, which was calculated by deducting all the costs mentioned above(except the childcare fee) from the average monthly salary(after tax) .
```

> * Property price per square meter is the average price of buying a house in city center and outside center.This also includes the price of buying a car.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Property price per square meter is the average price of buying a house in city center and outside center.
* Price of buying a car.
```
